README.rst, before:

==================
datetime_truncate
==================

This module truncates a datetime object to the level of precision that
you specify, making everything higher than that zero (or one for day
and month).

It is based on PostgreSQL's DATE_TRUNC_.

Documentation available on `Read the Docs`_.

Installation:
-------------

You can install from pypi!

.. code-block::

    pip install datetime_truncate


Usage:
------

.. code-block::

    >>> from datetime_truncate import truncate
    >>> truncate(datetime(2012, 2, 4, 12, 24, 50, 234), 'second')
    datetime(2012, 2, 4, 12, 24, 50)
    >>> truncate(datetime(2012, 2, 4, 12, 24, 50), 'minute')
    datetime(2012, 2, 4, 12, 24)
    >>> truncate(datetime(2012, 2, 4, 12, 24), 'hour')
    datetime(2012, 2, 4, 12)
    >>> truncate(datetime(2012, 2, 4, 12, 24), 'day')
    datetime(2012, 2, 4)
    >>> truncate(datetime(2012, 2, 4, 12, 24), 'week')
    datetime(2012, 1, 30)
    >>> truncate(datetime(2012, 2, 4, 12, 24), 'month')
    datetime(2012, 2, 1)
    >>> truncate(datetime(2012, 2, 4, 12, 24), 'quarter')
    datetime(2012, 1, 1)
    >>> truncate(datetime(2012, 8, 18, 12, 25), 'half_year')
    datetime(2012, 7, 1)
    >>> truncate(datetime(2012, 8, 18, 12, 25), 'year')
    datetime(2012, 1, 1)

There are also sugar functions available on the form:

* `truncate_second`
* `truncate_minute`
* `truncate_hour`
* `truncate_day`
* `truncate_week`
* `truncate_month`
* `truncate_quarter`
* `truncate_half_year`
* `truncate_year`


.. _DATE_TRUNC: http://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.1/static/functions-datetime.html#FUNCTIONS-DATETIME-TRUNC
.. _Read the Docs: http://datetime_truncate.readthedocs.org/en/latest/

Commit message:

Rename module to datetime_trunc for the fork

README.rst, after:

==============
datetime_trunc
==============

This is a fork of `datetime_truncate` that fixes some critical bugs in
the syntactic sugar versions of the truncate functions.

This module truncates a datetime object to the level of precision that
you specify, making everything higher than that zero (or one for day
and month).

It is based on PostgreSQL's DATE_TRUNC_.

Documentation available on `Read the Docs`_.


Installation:
-------------

.. code-block::

    pip install git+git://github.com/pb-/datetime_trunc.git


Usage:
------

.. code-block::

    >>> from datetime_trunc import truncate
    >>> truncate(datetime(2012, 2, 4, 12, 24, 50, 234), 'second')
    datetime(2012, 2, 4, 12, 24, 50)
    >>> truncate(datetime(2012, 2, 4, 12, 24, 50), 'minute')
    datetime(2012, 2, 4, 12, 24)
    >>> truncate(datetime(2012, 2, 4, 12, 24), 'hour')
    datetime(2012, 2, 4, 12)
    >>> truncate(datetime(2012, 2, 4, 12, 24), 'day')
    datetime(2012, 2, 4)
    >>> truncate(datetime(2012, 2, 4, 12, 24), 'week')
    datetime(2012, 1, 30)
    >>> truncate(datetime(2012, 2, 4, 12, 24), 'month')
    datetime(2012, 2, 1)
    >>> truncate(datetime(2012, 2, 4, 12, 24), 'quarter')
    datetime(2012, 1, 1)
    >>> truncate(datetime(2012, 8, 18, 12, 25), 'half_year')
    datetime(2012, 7, 1)
    >>> truncate(datetime(2012, 8, 18, 12, 25), 'year')
    datetime(2012, 1, 1)

There are also sugar functions available on the form:

* `truncate_second`
* `truncate_minute`
* `truncate_hour`
* `truncate_day`
* `truncate_week`
* `truncate_month`
* `truncate_quarter`
* `truncate_half_year`
* `truncate_year`


.. _DATE_TRUNC: http://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.1/static/functions-datetime.html#FUNCTIONS-DATETIME-TRUNC
.. _Read the Docs: http://datetime_truncate.readthedocs.org/en/latest/
